>> Ifill: AT LEAST 13 GOVERNMENT
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED IN EASTERN
UKRAINE.
THE BLOODIEST EPISODE YET IN THE
RUN UP TO THIS WEEKEND'S
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
MARGARET WARNER IS IN UKRAINE,
AND REPORTS TONIGHT ON
ADDITIONAL SEPARATIST ATTACKS ON
ELECTION OFFICES.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS OFF TONIGHT.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, THE
HOUSE EASILY PASSES A BILL AIMED
AT REINING IN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY'S BULK
COLLECTION OF PHONE RECORDS.
DESPITE CRITICISMS THAT THE
FINAL PRODUCT COULD HAVE BEEN
STRONGER.
AND AS PROTESTERS TURN UP THE
HEAT ON MCDONALD'S, DEMANDING
HIGHER PAY, PAUL SOLMAN LOOKS AT
LIFE ON MINIMUM WAGE.
>> LAST WEEK I HAD BRONCHITIS,
AND I WENT TO THE EMERGENCY
ROOM.
NOW THAT'S GOING TO BE A SHORTER
PAYCHECK BECAUSE I WAS SICK.
WE DON'T GET SICK PAID DAYS.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THAILAND'S MILITARY
SEIZED POWER, DISSOLVED THE
GOVERNMENT AND SUSPENDED THE
CONSTITUTION TODAY.
THE COUP FOLLOWED MONTHS OF
POLITICAL VIOLENCE AND DEADLOCK.
JONATHAN MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THAILAND, TONIGHT,
AS SOLDIERS CLEARED STREETS,
BANGKOK'S RESIDENTS RUSHED HOME
BEFORE 10:00 P.M. CURFEW, PANIC
BUYING IN 7/11s.
IT'S BEEN BLOODLESS, BUT IT WAS
A COUP.
EARLIER, AT THE ARMY CLUB
COMPOUND IN BANGKOK, IT WAS
OBVIOUS SOMETHING WAS UP.
TWO DAYS AFTER THE MILITARY
DECLARED MARTIAL LAW, THE ARMY
HAD SUMMONED THE COUNTRY'S
POLITICAL LEADERS TO A MEETING.
GENERAL PRAYUTH CHAN-OCHA, ARMY
COMMANDER.
HE HAD FAILED TO MEDIATE
COMPROMISE IN THE POLITICAL
DEADLOCK, SO HE PROMPTLY
DETAINED THAILAND'S POLITICAL
LEADERS.
ACROSS THE NATION, ALL TV
STATIONS WENT OFF AIR.
"STAND-BY," THE SLATE SAYS, "FOR
AN IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT."
THEN THAILAND'S COUP-LEADER
ANNOUNCED THAT FOR THE GOOD OF
THE NATION, AND TO RETURN THINGS
QUICKLY TO NORMAL, THE NATIONAL
PEACE AND ORDER MAINTAINING
COUNCIL WOULD BE TAKING CHARGE.
FEW OF THESE JOURNALISTS REPORTS
ON THE COUP WOULD EVER MAKE AIR.
WITHIN HOURS, THE ARMY HAD SHUT
DOWN 14 TV STATIONS, 3,000
COMMUNITY RADIO BROADCASTERS AND
BLOCKED INTERNATIONAL SATELLITE
CHANNELS.
OUT ON THE STREETS, MANY THAIS
SHRUGGED IT ALL OFF, COUPS ARE
PART OF THE GREAT WHEEL OF LIFE
HERE.
>> ( translated ): I FEEL BETTER
THAT EVERYTHING WILL BE BACK IN
ORDER.
PEOPLE WILL GO HOME AND THEN WE
CAN ALL GO BACK TO WORK NORMALLY
AND EVERYTHING WILL FALL BACK
INTO PLACE.
>> ( translated ): IT'S THE SAME
OLD THING.
THEY'VE DONE THIS 17 OR 18
TIMES.
IF YOU ASK ME, I WOULD SAY THE
ARMY HAS CHOSEN THE STUPIDEST
SOLUTION.
>> Reporter: AT MILITARY
SOLUTION H.Q., THE ARMY CLUB
VENUE WAS NOW RINGED BY COMBAT
TROOPS.
SOLDIERS ESCORTED TWO VANS AWAY
FROM THE BUILDING.
INSIDE, THE LEADERS OF THE RIVAL
POLITICAL PROTEST MOVEMENTS.
>> Ifill: THAILAND IS AMERICA'S
OLDEST ALLY IN ASIA, BUT THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION CRITICIZED
THE COUP, AND SAID IT'S
RECONSIDERING MILITARY TIES AND
AID PROGRAMS.
IN WESTERN CHINA TODAY, 31
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND MORE THAN
90 WOUNDED AFTER ATTACKERS DROVE
TWO SUV's INTO A BUSY STREET
MARKET AND THREW BOMBS.
IT HAPPENED IN URUMQI, A CITY IN
XINJIANG WHERE VIOLENCE HAS
SURGED IN RECENT MONTHS.
AUTHORITIES BLAME RADICALS IN
THE MUSLIM UIGHUR MINORITY.
IN BEIJING TODAY, A FOREIGN
MINISTRY SPOKESMAN VOWED THE
GOVERNMENT WILL PUT AN END TO
THE BLOODSHED.
>> ( translated ): THE CHINESE
GOVERNMENT HAS THE CONFIDENCE
AND THE ABILITY TO COMBAT THE
TERRORISTS.
THESE TERRORISTS ARE SWOLLEN
WITH ARROGANCE.
THEIR SCHEMES WILL NOT SUCCEED.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S DEATH TOLL WAS
THE WORST IN XINJIANG SINCE
NEARLY 200 PEOPLE DIED IN RIOTS
IN 2009.
THE SENATE TODAY CONFIRMED A
JUDICIAL NOMINEE WHO AUTHORED
MEMOS JUSTIFYING DRONE STRIKES
ON AMERICAN TERROR SUSPECTS
OVERSEAS.
DAVID BARRON WROTE THEM WHEN HE
WORKED AT THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
IN 2009 AND 2010.
THIS WEEK, THE DEPARTMENT AGREED
TO RELEASE A CENSORED VERSION OF
ONE  DOCUMENT, TO HELP EASE HIS
CONFIRMATION.
BARRON WILL JOIN THE FEDERAL
APPEALS COURT IN BOSTON.
IN THE HOUSE, REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS UNITED TO PASS A $600
BILLION DEFENSE BILL.
IT SPARES SOME AGING PLANES,
PLUS SHIPS AND BASES THAT THE
PENTAGON SOUGHT TO RETIRE OR
CLOSE.
THE BILL ALSO BARS MOVING TERROR
DETAINEES FROM GUANTANAMO TO
U.S. PRISONS.
THAT PROVISION HAS PROMPTED A
WHITE HOUSE VETO THREAT.
THE SENATE IS CONSIDERING A
SIMILAR BILL.
RUSSIA AND CHINA VETOED A U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
TODAY, ASKING THE INTERNATIONAL
CRIMINAL COURT TO INVESTIGATE
WAR CRIMES IN SYRIA.
THE U.S. AND 60 OTHER NATIONS
SUPPORTED THE PROPOSAL, OFFERED
BY FRANCE.
RUSSIA ARGUED THE FOCUS SHOULD
BE ON A POLITICAL SETTLEMENT,
BUT U.S. AMBASSADOR SAMANTHA
POWER CONDEMNED THE VETO.
>> SADLY, BECAUSE OF THE
DECISION BY THE RUSSIAN
FEDERATION TO BACK THE
SYRIAN REGIME NO MATTER WHAT
IT DOES, THE SYRIAN PEOPLE
WILL NOT SEE JUSTICE TODAY
THEY WILL SEE CRIME, BUT NOT
PUNISHMENT
>> Ifill: THIS WAS THE FOURTH
TIME THAT RUSSIA AND CHINA HAVE
BLOCKED U.N. ACTION IN THE
SYRIAN WAR.
ELECTIONS FOR THE EUROPEAN
PARLIAMENT BEGAN TODAY, WITH
FAR-RIGHT PARTIES LOOKING TO WIN
BIG IN A BACKLASH AGAINST
AUSTERITY MEASURES.
VOTERS IN BRITAIN AND THE
NETHERLANDS WERE THE FIRST TO
HEAD TO THE POLLS.
THE VOTING RUNS THROUGH SUNDAY
AND SPANS THE 28 MEMBER NATIONS
OF THE E.U.
751 SEATS ARE UP FOR GRABS.
TOYOTA IS ADDING TO THE PARADE
OF AUTO RECALLS.
IT'S PULLING BACK 370,000 OLDER
MODEL SIENNA MINIVANS IN COLD
WEATHER STATES.
ROAD SALT CAN CORRODE THE SPARE
TIRE CARRIER, AND THE TIRE CAN
FALL OFF.
ALSO RECALLED, 50,000 CURRENT
MODEL HIGHLANDER SUV's THAT MAY
HAVE PASSENGER AIR BAG PROBLEMS,
AND 10,000 LEXUS GS 350 SEDANS
FROM 2013.
THEIR BRAKES CAN